- [Instructor] Batch jobs normally contain more
than a single step.
The execution of most jobs flows sequentially
from one step to another until the job completes.
When configuring a job with multiple steps,
the job builder interface allows us to define transitions
from one step to another to create a multi-step job.
Let's add a few more steps to the delivery job
to see these transitions.
We'll need to drive the package to the customer's address
in the process of completing our package delivery job.
So let's create a new step in order to include the action
of driving to the customer's address.
I'm going to name the method
for this bean driveToAddressStep and then,
just like before, we'll use the stepBuilderFactory
to create a new step named driveToAddressStep
and then we're going to create a tasklet
and within this tasklet, we're going to add
the logic we would like to execute
while driving to the address.
We're going to keep it simple
and we'll just add some console output
that says successfully arrived at the address
and then within the return section of our method,
we're going to specify the repeat status as finished
and once we've done that, we can go ahead
and build our step and that completes our next step
in the job.
Now while we're at it, let's go ahead
and add one more additional step
so I'm just going to copy our last step
and then we'll supply a name for this method
and the name for this step is going
to be the givePackageToCustomerStep
and this step is going to be after we arrive
at the address,
we simply want to give the customer the item
that they've ordered.
So we'll go ahead and change the name
to givePackageToCustomer and then we can modify
our console output so we know which step we're on,
we can just say that we have given the package
to the customer and at this point,
we now have three steps that are available
as beans within our job.
Now at the moment, these steps are not specified
within our job configuration
so in order to include them,
we'll need to navigate down to our job configuration
and let's just start to organize this sum
and there we can see our first step
where we package the item
and then after that, we would like to drive
to the customer's address
so in order to transition from one step to another,
there is a transition element that we can use
and it's next and you can see that when we use next,
we just specify the next step in the sequence of the job
so here we can provide our step driveToCustomerAddress
and then we can specify the next step in the job
that we would like to execute and in this case,
it is the givePackageToCustomerStep
and now we have a job that contains three steps.
These steps are executed in sequence
so we'll start with packaging the item
then we'll drive to the address
and then we'll give the package to the customer.
Now one of the things I've done
in order to make it a little bit easier,
I've added a script that will run this job
so let's head over to our terminal
and we can take a look at this script.
You'll see that it's basically doing
what we've previously done
where it's passing in the two job parameters
and then it's invoking our job
by using the java -jar command and our jar file.
So with that in our project directory,
all we need to do to run this job
is just hit ./ and then the script name
and that's going to help us launch the jobs
so that we don't have to type in those commands every time
and we see that our job does kick off
and we're looking to see those three steps execute
so here you can see that we package the item
and that step executed successfully
then we drove to the address
and then we gave the package to the customer
so we now have a job with multiple steps
and those steps are specified by using the next method
that allows us to transition from one step
in a job to another.